There was a curfew between 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., from 11th of November, everyone should be home by 8:00 p.m. One of the cases of curfew exemption is work, which must be verified. A sample of the certificate is available at the following link, which includes the minimum required content requirements. https://koronavirus.gov.hu/cikkek/kijarasi-tilalom-alatti-munkavegzesrol-szolo-igazolas-letoltheto-igazolas-minta. The employer's certificate must be presented in case of a police certificate, individual entrepreneurs can issue the certificate for themselves. An exception to the curfew is also a situation threatening to health, life risk or serious damage. Dog walking is also allowed within 500 metres of the residence.
The rules introduced so far on mask wearing and distance remain applicable — i.e. wearing masks is mandatory in shops, public transport, shopping malls, healthcare and social institutions, customer reception offices — and from 11 November, also in certain public areas of the municipality of more than 10 000 people. It is up to the mayor to designate the areas. During sports activities, as well as in parks or green areas, the mask is still not mandatory.
Again, the shopping time band for the elderly is working, which simultaneously serves to slow down the epidemic and protect the elderly, as our older parents and grandparents are at a higher than average risk of coronavirus. The vast majority of severe patients and the deceased are elderly people. The government accepted the proposal of the Elderly Council and introduced the seniors shopping lane every weekday (Monday to Friday) between 09.00 and 11.00 and on weekends (Saturday and Sunday) between 08.00 and 10.00. In this time band, only people over 65 years old are allowed to enter grocery stores, drugstores (shop selling perfumery, druggerian products, household cleaners, chemicals and hygiene paper products) and the medicine and medical equipment store (pharmacy). In the grocery store, drugstore and pharmacy, elderly people can also buy freely outside the protected shopping time band. Elderly people are asked to ask for the help of their relatives in shopping, or to do the shopping in the time bar and mask assigned to them.
All assemblies are prohibited.
General event ban comes into effect. It is forbidden to hold any event, including cultural and sporting events, as well as Christmas fairs. Sports matches must be held behind closed gates.
Family and private events can be held up to 10 people. Weddings are only possible without weddings, persons necessary for church or civil rituals, witnesses are allowed to attend the parents, grandparents' siblings and children. A maximum of 50 people can attend the funerals.
The police strictly monitor compliance with the rules, impose fines, and places where the regulations are not observed are closed. If you don't follow the rules, don't wear the mask, you can put your own lives in jeopardy as well.
Soldiers also help police and hospitals work. Soldiers are involved in monitoring public areas and curfew rules and help hospitals operate in 93 hospitals to reduce the burden of health workers. They contribute to hospital admission, administration, computing, handling and warehousing tasks. In addition, they comply with the requests for disinfection and participate in the provision of border sealing.
Restaurants and restaurants are not allowed, guests are only allowed to stay there to take food. The Government reduces the administrative burden of home delivery and makes it possible for taxi drivers to be involved in the task. Factory canteens are open.
Stores, except for pharmacies and gas stations, can be open until 7 p.m., and after that, after that, they can open at 5 o'clock in the morning at the earliest.
Hotels are not allowed to receive tourists, only guests arrived for business, economic or educational purposes.
Exercise for individual outdoor sports is allowed.
The use of recreational facilities is prohibited, including, in particular, fitness rooms, indoor swimming pools, museums, libraries, cinemas and zoos, skating rink. According to the relevant legislation, competing athletes may not be restricted in their activities.
Schools in secondary education from 9th grade operate in a digital working schedule. The dormitories of secondary institutions operate at the discretion of the school director. According to the Government Decree published on 15 November, students and teachers participating in the digital work schedule of public education can use free internet services for 30 days. You can read more about this here and here.
Crades, kindergartens and primary schools until the 8th grade are open according to the usual order, while maintaining precautions, special institutional protection measures are determined by the director. From October it is possible to enter schools and kindergartens only after a body temperature measurement, the child with fever should be isolated and the parent, guardian, should be notified immediately. If a virus appears in a kindergarten or school, the Operational Tribe decides whether it is necessary to order an extraordinary break or digital education.
Universities, colleges are switching to digital work schedules. The dormitories of higher education institutions are closed, exceptions may be made by the rector.
Targeted group testing has started. The aim is to slow down the epidemic and protect the schools. In addition to rapid testing of workers of social and medical institutions, they also test nursery, preschool and school workers. The rapid tests involve university students participating in medical and medical training in the form of paid traineeships.
We continue to avoid places where there are many in confined spaces, preferably keep the protective distance, wash hands often and thoroughly.
It is still important to pay attention to each other, frequent and thorough washing of hands, and if a person detects symptoms of coronavirus infection on himself, then call your family doctor!
Individual responsibility - It is important to continue to pay attention to the symptoms of coronavirus, the most famous of which are fever, fatigue and dry cough. Some patients may experience muscle pain, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat, diarrhea, shortness of breath. In addition, a characteristic symptom of a new coronavirus infection is a disturbance or loss of taste and sense of smell, which is often the only symptom. If a person detects the listed symptoms on himself, then we ask him to stay at home, do not go to communion. Do not contact your family doctor personally, but call him on the phone. If there is a suspicion of coronavirus infection on the basis of a telephone interview by the family doctor, but according to the symptoms the patient does not need hospitalization, then he is quarantined at home. If the symptoms are severe (e.g. difficulty breathing, pneumonia), the GP will arrange for the patient to be hospitalized.
from 3 November the free public parking is in place throughout the country. From 23 November, parking garages can be used at night free of charge.
Companies carrying out local public transport services in Budapest and in cities with county rights need to thicken the flights between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. on working days and between 15 p.m. and 19 p.m. During the emergency, healthcare workers and defending medical and health students can use public transport free of charge throughout the country.
Due to the risk of virus introduction from abroad, entry restrictions for certain countries entered into force on 15 July and further tightened entry into force on 1 September. As a rule, foreign nationals are not allowed to enter Hungary, and Hungarian citizens returning from abroad are required to enter an official house quarantine, which can only be lifted in case of 2 negative PCR laboratories carried out at their own expense. The price of PCR tests for cost cost has been priced by the government.
Citizens of neighbouring states and Hungarian citizens living there may enter the territory of Hungary within a distance of 30 km from the state border for a maximum of 24 hours, but they cannot leave this lane. Hungarians living in this 30-kilometer lane can also enter if they have stayed less than 24 hours in a 30-kilometer zone from the border of the neighbouring state. Business arrivals are allowed to enter Hungary from any state.
Transit of foreigners is allowed upon entry after a health inspection if there is no suspicion of infection, the entrant has the conditions of entry provided for in the Schengen Borders Code, certifies the purpose, country of destination and travel route to the country of destination neighboring state for its entry is secured. Transit traffic is possible only on a specified route, stopping only at certain rest and up to 24 hours.
All people suspected of coronavirus are assigned a PCR test for coronavirus. It is ordered by the family doctor, the CDC or the hospital and is completely free of charge. Due to the growing need for testing, mobile testing stations (filter buses) have also been in service, which can be used by those whose family doctor previously ordered an examination. If the GP orders the test, the sampling is carried out by the National Emergency Service, sampling is not an emergency intervention. You only have to pay for the test if you decide for yourself that you want to be tested. Where can I get an official PCR test? List: https://www.nnk.gov.hu/index.php/koronavirus-tajekoztato/609-covid-19-mikrobiologiai-laboratoriumi-diagnosztika-virusorokito-anyagot-kimutato-pcr-vizsgalat
The protection of the elderly remains a priority. We ask the elderly to be more attentive to themselves, wear masks, avoid places where there are many!
In order to ensure continuous hospitalization of an increasing number of patients with coronavirus, almost all hospitals were included in the care of coronavirus patients from November 10, the number of hospital beds reserved for coronavirus patients was increased and postponed surgeries were suspended. Of course, urgent, life-saving interventions are carried out, without which the patient would be in immediate danger to life or suffering serious or permanent damage to health.
In order to protect the elderly and patients, there is a ban on visiting and leaving institutions in the elderly and in all social institutions of the country. And a complete ban on visits to hospitals and all healthcare and inpatient institutions in the country.
Part of the health protection is that the government provides flu vaccinations for everyone free. This should be consulted from the family doctor. It is particularly important for those in high-risk groups from the point of view of the coronavirus to make use of the free vaccination because there is a great need, especially during the coronavirus epidemic, to be protected against at least one of the diseases.
The government aims to protect jobs and families living standards during the epidemic. In recent months, several measures have been taken to help Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses and the recovery of the economy. The Economic Defence Operational Tribe is working continuously. The government will extend the credit oratorium for households until 30 June 2021, and new home creation grants will be put into effect from January.
The government also decided on economic protection measures for hotels, restaurants and leisure centres which are now restricted, and is currently working on the details of an economic and growth action plan that helps all economic sectors.
Please let those travelling abroad know about the epidemiological situation and travel restrictions in the country of destination on the consulliserva.kormany.hu website!
